Because we're interacting with the outside
world, we have to add two strict rules.
We have two rules for the execution
of our asynchroneously delayed code.
Print hello, is asynchroneously delayed.
It's saying, we're gonna delay
this code and run it later.
That asynchronicity is not
happening in JavaScript.
JavaScript has one thread so it can't
Add the function to the Queup
stack in other words execute that
function only when the Queup
stack is totally empty.
So what is that process called if
the cheque is the Queup stack empty and
is that the callback Queup that process is
known as something called has come from
your side in general standard compute
science concept Where you're checking
is something empty in order to
pass some functionality to be run.
It's called an event loop.
The event loop is just
the process of going, hold on.
Is my call stack empty?
Does my callback queue
have a function in it?
Don't worry.
Call stack was not empty, was not empty,
check, check, check, check, check.
Still not empty, block for
one second is on the way.
Check, check, still not empty.
Still block one, aha, don't panic.
Now the call stack's empty, block for
one second has finished executing.
I can add print hello's
call to my call stack.
Hooray.
The event loop is just a posh name for
that checking is my call stack empty?
Well if it is I can add my callback
function that was deferred
from using this built in set time out
that speaks in the web browser API's.
Stores a reference of that function.
And on completion of my API,
completes instantly.
Pushes that function, to the call back
queue, where it waits ready to go back
to the call stack,
when the event loop says it is okay.
And it was, it was okay.
Because we went back to global, and
at that moment the event loop said,
take that print hello function!
And push it to the call stack where it can
be run in conventional JavaScript land.
But didn't it take awhile to get back into
that world, to go over 1,000 milliseconds?
Even though the function printHello looked
like it was only gonna be deferred for
0 milliseconds,
it took over 1,000 milliseconds.
All right folks.
We're gonna have to look
at one more API like this.
Besides timer, there's a whole bunch
of different API's we can use.
Timer and whole bunch of other ones.
We're gonna look at one more
after some more pairing.
But first, thumbs and
clarification questions on this
addition of our two final pieces.
Of the JavaScript platform at event loop,
and our callback Hugh,
or our message or task Hugh.
These are messages, tasks that are gonna
be passed back to JavaScript's
call stack only when the event loop
says you're good to go, it's clear